# Design Bias

Date: April 24, 2021
Tags: course 2 week 1
Article : Value preposition: https://uxdesign.cc/10-cognitive-biases-to-avoid-in-user-research-and-how-to-avoid-them-993aa397c8c6
Harvard Implicit Bias Test: https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html

**Bias** : 

In short, a bias is favoring or having

prejudice against something based on limited information.

[Avoiding Design Bias , in Data collection ](Avoiding%20Design%20Bias%20,%20in%20Data%20collection%2061fa9986382743138ed105f03d66fa35.md)

[10 cognitive biases to avoid in User Research (and how to avoid them)](https://uxdesign.cc/10-cognitive-biases-to-avoid-in-user-research-and-how-to-avoid-them-993aa397c8c6)

[Avoid Leading Questions to Get Better Insights from Participants](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/leading-questions/)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qq3OiHQ-HCU&list=LL&index=79&t=7s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qq3OiHQ-HCU&list=LL&index=79&t=7s)

Now that you know the basics of user research,

let's explore how bias can get in the way.

In this video, we're going to discuss

how bias specifically affects design work.

We'll examine six kinds of biases:

### **confirmation bias :**

        Let's say you have the preconception that left-handed people are more

creative than right-handed people. As you research, you'll tend to

gravitate toward evidence that supports this belief, and you'll use it to build your case,

even though it's not necessarily true.

              

### **false consensus bias :**

       

You can avoid false consensus bias by identifying and articulating your assumptions.

For example, you might live in a community that often identifies with certain political beliefs.

When you meet a new person, you might assume they share your political beliefs,

because you both live in the same town. But that isn't necessarily true

### primacy bias :

Sometimes the first person you meet makes the strongest impression,

because you're in a new situation or having a new experience.

The primacy bias, like the recency bias, is another reason to take detailed notes or recordings,

so you can review everything that happened, not just the memorable first impressions.

### recency bias :

recency bias.

That's when it's easiest to remember

the last thing you heard in an interview,

conversation, or similar setting,

because it's the most recent.

When talking to someone,

you're more likely to remember

things they shared at the end of the conversation.

### implicit bias,

Implicit bias, also known as unconscious bias, is the collection of attitudes and stereotypes associated with people without conscious knowledge.

implicit bias, which is also known as unconscious bias.

Implicit bias is a collection of attitudes and stereotypes we associate to

people without our conscious knowledge. One of the most common forms of

implicit bias in UX is when we only interview people within a limited set of identity profiles,

such as race, age, gender, socioeconomic status, and ability. These profiles are generally based on

assumptions we have about certain types of people.

For example,

implicit bias might cause you to feel uncomfortable interviewing 

people whose life experiences are different from your own.

### the sunk cost fallacy.

This is the idea that the deeper we get into a project we've invested in,

the harder it is to change course without feeling like we've failed or wasted time.

The phrase "sunk cost" refers to the time we've already spent or sunk into a project or activity.

For example, you might think to yourself, I might as well keep watching

this terrible movie because I've watched an hour of it already.

For UX designers,

the sunk cost fallacy

comes into play when working on a design. You might have invested

hours into designing a new feature, but then learned that the feature doesn't

really address a user problem. It's easy to keep working on

a design that you've invested time into. But ultimately, you need to focus on

work that positively impacts users.