# Sample Bias

Sample bias is the selection of the Candidates that have a similar mindset and they all share the similar tastes 

the following examples is best fit to explain this : 

The types of participants you select should be based on your research goals.

Also, make sure that participants you select do not bias your results.

To show you what I mean, let me tell you a true story.

In the 1936 United States presidential election,

Republican Alf Landon challenged the Democratic incumbent, Franklin D. Roosevelt.

The Literary Digest, one of the most respected magazines of the era, conducted

a poll of 2.4 million people to predict who would win the election.

With that large of a sample size,

you'd think the results would be pretty reliable, right?

You'd be wrong. The Literary Digest predicted Landon would beat Roosevelt,

with Landon taking 57% of the vote and Roosevelt taking 43%.

But on election day, Roosevelt scored a decisive win.

Landon gathered only 38% of the vote and Roosevelt took 62%.

So why was the Literary Digest prediction so inaccurate?

The problem was something called sample bias.

The Literary Digest selected its participants from contact info they found

in car registrations and telephone directories.

Can you spot the problem?

Let's break it down.

The majority of people who owned cars and telephones in 1936 were wealthy.

And at that time, many wealthy people tended to vote Republican.

That means that the sampling was biased in favor of Republicans.

So the prediction that Republican Alf Landon would win reflected that

sample bias.

So what does this teach us?

When conducting research, we need to choose study participants who

are representative of all our users, not just a select group.

You'll learn more about different types of biases later on.

The final step in your research plan is to script the questions you

ask study participants as they test your product.